Task 02-Git commands:

1. Initial Git Configuration(In terminal):

Before working with repositories, the global user identity and default editor were set up:

Check Version: git --version (Confirmed version 2.45.2.windows.1)

Set Username: git config --global user.name "CCA"

Set Email: git config --global user.email "24aiml062@bnmit.in"

Set Default Editor: git config --global user.editor "code --wait" (Sets VS Code as the editor)

Verify Config: git config --global -e (Opens the configuration file for review)

2. Local Repository & Commits:

Steps taken to initialize a project and track changes:

Initialize: git init (Initializes or reinitializes the repository)

Stage File: git add print.c (Adds a specific file to the staging area)

First Commit: git commit -m "initial commit"

View History: git log commit [paste code URL] (Displays the commit hash, author, and date)

Stage All Changes: git add . (Adds all modified files in the directory)

Second Commit: git commit -m "second change"

3. Navigation & Branching:

Exploring the "Detached HEAD" state and creating branches:

Checkout Specific Commit: git checkout [paste code URL] (Switches the working directory to the state of the first commit)

Check Status: git status (Confirms the HEAD is detached at the specific hash)

Return to Main Branch: git checkout master

Create Branches:

git branch child1

git branch child2

List Branches: git branch (The * indicates the currently active branch, which is master)

git status

4. Remote Operations (GitHub):

Synchronizing the local repository with a remote GitHub repository (ccalab.git):

Push Changes: git push -u origin main (Uploads local commits to the remote main branch and sets up tracking)

Pull Changes: git pull origin main (Fetches changes from the remote repository and merges them into the local branch)

Result: A "Fast-forward" update was performed on print.c.

Summary of Workflow Logic:

Modify files in the working directory.

Stage files using git add.

Commit files to the local history using git commit.

Push/Pull to stay in sync with the remote GitHub server.
